the financial system is at risks the
banks are in crisis right now you came
here for the truth so let me unveil that
for you in today's video I'm going to
break down everything that's happening
right here and right now there are some
banks that are starting to collapse who
are they connected to do we need to
understand the depths of this I can
bring that all to you right here and
connect that in in future videos as well
because commercial real estate and of
course the bank are exposed to this to a
great degree we are talking about not
just billions but trillions of dollars
at risk let me show you what's happening
right here and now us property losses
trigger a 20% drop in Japanese bank
ozora and this is just one of many I was
talking about this March of 2023 what
did we have the banking system started
to experience a collapse this not only
affected small Banks but started to
spread around the world very rapidly and
we saw Credit swi One of the biggest
companies in the world it is considered
to be a global systemically important
bank and it collapsed so bad that of
course they started to get uh the
government involved they had to bail
them out UBS comes in the whole deal
started to expand I covered it
extensively back then and now today the
problem is still going on this is a bank
on the other side of the world being
directly affected by what's been
happening in the United States this is
why we need to understand how the
dominoes fall this is very intricate of
course the details aren't all there but
it's hard to sift through all of this
information we really don't know the
level of exposure until it starts to
fail everybody says Leman was going to
be okay everybody including your friend
Jim Kramer said be Sterns was going to
be okay okay that didn't exactly work
out the best way okay so you could see
property losses in the US created this
Panic created this crisis but it's just
one of many US property Market
specifically on the commercial side has
been hit by higher rates and why it's
because it's short-term debt shortterm
that unlike your 30-year mortgage you
get on your residential property it is
not the same on the commercial side okay
keep that in mind you could see here
became the second lender in a span of
hours to surprise investors with losses
tied to us commercial property sending
shares down by the limit and heightening
concern of the global Banks exposure to
Soaring uh soaring real real estate bets
and souring real estate bets this is
important because it's not just one
company but of course we see that
industrywide this is Japan's 16th
biggest uh Bank not necessarily the
biggest in the world of course but it's
not insignificant it shows us that the
problems are there and of course we also
see that with New York Community Bank
Corp which I will talk about in a second
okay so this is important by with One
Bank you can see several Regional Banks
started to fall on this
news why should we care about the
regional Banks if they're small
shouldn't we just care about JP Morgan
and the Goldman saxis
well make you uh just to give you a
little bit Insight of has as to how it
works a large percentage of all of the
commercial real estate is directly
connected with these Regional Banks they
are the ones doing the lending to the
commercial real estate and that I
believe I mean depending on where you're
looking it is 50% or greater on the on
these Regional Banks so it is a very
important thing that we pay attention to
what happens you might say I don't care
why should I care it's commercial Banks
it's the banks let them take the losses
when they start to
fail they will start to lay off people
and that will have a uh broadened effect
on the economy as a whole you don't want
to see that okay that could be not the
financial crisis from 2008 but a
different financial crisis we don't want
to see that okay it's very
important what else this article as you
see here dated March 19th 2023 Signature
Bank taken over by New York Community
bankor after sen collapse so we have
Signature Bank as well as svb right this
Bank comes in New York Community Bank
cor comes in Scoops it up they save the
day right well then what
happens all right you could see New York
Community Bank Corp right now worse off
it's worse off than it was when svb and
signature collapsed this is going back
we're now seeing this stock at the same
level it was at in the year
unbelievable right but that could happen
to any stock you cannot have all your
eggs in one basket as they say but
certainly we don't want to be exposed to
something like this because you're going
to lose your shirt it doesn't matter if
there's a bailout and this and that it's
systemic risk ultimately putting power
and control all the finances into fewer
and fewer hands CU what's going to
happen here you know that there's going
to be another one and another one and
another one getting scooped up by the JP
Morgans of the world isn't that so funny
how it all works what you're looking at
is the Regional Bank banking ETF broadly
just looking at what's happening with
the regional Banks and as soon as this
news comes out of course they get
smashed down so svb collapses Signature
Bank collapses these stocks get pummeled
and you know it's kind of been up and
down but certainly the direction has
been up moving back to where it was
before but this really sent those
Regional Banks down quite a bit notice
it wasn't all just today right right
part of that is the fact that the
Federal Reserve ended their schemes that
a lot of these Banks were trying to take
advantage of mostly the big Banks uh but
they're trying to come to terms with the
fact that you can't use the btfp that's
the bank term funding program which is
like the Emergency Loans um that were
set up during this time one year ago as
these Banks were collapsing they were
using that because they could borrow
from it at a cheaper rate park it at the
FED earn that spread in there that's
gone out of the window now and so that
by the and also the btfp ends entirely
as of March supposedly so that shows us
that that Lifeline for these Banks is
gone and the regional Banks need it I'm
going to show you
something important in relation to that
hang in there all of this is
connected here we have it small Bank
cash
excluding the
btfp that is actually at a level that is
lower than it was when svb collapsed
lower than it was all throughout 2018
2019 that is a big concern more and more
cash is moving into the bigger Banks the
large banks are okay in terms of their
reserves but that is not the case for
the small Banks and that if of course is
a very big concern they are
restrained their reserves are too low
and that is a big concern interest rates
have higher interest rates have become a
very big problem because a lot of the
individuals have been moving their money
out they want it to be safer they don't
trust the svb's of the world anymore and
so a lot of that cash has been moving
out so their reserves are minimal here
at this time cracks in the commercial
property Market are widening to
Apartments
16.5% of our board loans were passed due
in December apartment loans emerging as
a problem area in the commercial real
estate space that's apartments that
isn't the worst of it in my opinion I
think it is clear to me when we look at
retail when we look at office that is a
much bigger issue but it's going on all
over the place because that debt is
short term that's the important thing to
note debt short term in the commercial
real estate space so of course they were
getting super low interest rates before
uh not so much now right and the fact
that credit is tighter in in the side
this in this market in the commercial
side the cracks in the commercial real
estate market are widening from offices
to apartment complexes with more than
$67 billion of housing potentially
distressed as Borrowers struggle to
repay loans extended during the height
of 2020 okay and so this is just one
particular company they're talking about
Clos what are they it's the
collateralized loan obligations kind of
similar to the CD O's collateralized
debt obligations if you watch The Big
Short or read the book The Big Short or
you were on this channel for a while I
have videos about this and my
uh Easy E course here when you go to the
main Channel scroll down to the bottom
you see that in there broke it all down
what is it okay well you can take a
bunch of nothing and you could package
it up all right and then you put a
little put it in the package you put a
little bow on top um and you write AA a
on it and then you you hand it off and
people can invest in that and then you
take a big bunch of nothing some air you
put that in a box and then put a nice
little bow on it you write AAA on that
and and you sell that off to investors
again and again again again and then you
take like three or four of those things
and you and you put those into an even
bigger box and then you put AAA on that
and you sell that off to an investor
those were the CDO
squared
CDO cubed and you're probably thinking
the heck is this guy talking about I
talked about in my first book for those
who read it this is literally what they
were doing they were taking nothing
nonsense the worst of the worst
packaging it up getting their friends at
the rating agencies to mark that as
AAA and selling it off to
investors in this case here and of
course it there's varying degrees of
quality but that whole derivative
nonsense is still going on today but it
become more popular with the Clos I've
been talking about these for years uh
but Clos are what this is all about and
of course when you have have this as a
um situation that's been going on for a
while we see that the stress is there
why higher interest rates that's what I
warned about back in 2012 January 2012
my book released I warned about that
higher interest rates and then all of
this I said I said that anybody who read
my book my first book please put that in
in
there higher interest rates and then I
said 1 2 3 4 5 six all these different
things okay and now we're seeing it how
did I know that over a decade ago how
could I have told everybody that that
would happen over a decade ago the
financial crisis and so on it's pretty
obvious because of higher interest rates
now I think they're going to cut
interest rates I think they're going to
print money at some
point okay and that doesn't fix the
problem where we could certainly um you
know let's just say inflate our way out
of a mess two days of Regional Bank
tumult netted 1. billion for short
sellers there's always profit to be made
and then of course you can see
Commercial Bank deposits money has been
leaving this year and where has it been
going well could be equities it could be
elsewhere uh but certainly and by the
way uh money market funds are starting
to see an uptick as well uh which is
interesting where I think uh the biggest
risk is right now is the commercial real
estate I've been talking about that a
while I wouldn't touch out with a 10-ft
pole people were just pouring their
money and they're saying hey I need need
something for cheap and so they were
buying it to commercial real estate or
the somehow connected whether it's a
real estate investment trust whether
it's a stocks associated with that it is
very dangerous it's precarious it's a
circumstance that I would be concerned
about just prior to recording this video
I got off my finance Friday live session
we talked about all of this for over my
goodness it was well over two hours and
I want you to be part of that what is
this why I break it down very like
thoroughly we get into everything I show
you the charts I talk about the topown
strategies we talk about investing I
look at particular stocks I look at
overall themes I answer your questions
all in these live Zoom classes small
groups if you're interested link is in
the description at the top and I hope
that I will see you there if you found
this informative hit that thumbs up
button I do appreciate it very much and
of course as as always I'll see you
tomorrow take care